So let's say you've created this great model using tidymodels, which is an opinionated
set of R packages for machine learning. You've used recipes to detail the preprocessing steps
you want, you've fitted a LASSO model, and you've created a workflow that adds your
model and your preprocessing recipe to your training data. When you fit your data, it
all looks great. It's exactly the model you want to use. But you're an Apache Spark
user, so you want to benefit from Spark's speed and scalability for big data. But you
also want to maintain your R code. You want to use R's extensive ecosystem of packages
and its syntax, and you definitely don't want to rewrite this great model you've created.
So to do that, we can create what are called user-defined functions in sparklyr. Sparklyr
is a package that provides an R interface to Spark, allows you to execute distributed
R code within the Spark environment. For Databricks users, we at Posit have built many
features into Posit Workbench, our enterprise-level development environment, to make the integration
between Posit Workbench and your Databricks environment seamless. So let's see how this
actually looks. Here are the steps that we ran to create our model. Then we're going
to use the vetebrate package, which is a package for machine learning operations and deploying
models in production in R or Python to store a version of this model on Posit Connect as
a PIN. A PIN allows you to easily share data, model, or other objects across different projects.
So in this case, the model is going to be stored as an RDS file that we're going to
read in other places. So this is the Posit Workbench front page. So I'm going to walk
through how you sign in as a Databricks user. If you click New Session, there's RStudio
Pro. And then under Session Credentials, I already have my AWS Databricks workspace
that I've signed into using SSO. I click Start Session. It's starting my RStudio Pro session.
Once it is ready, it will automatically drop me into RStudio Pro. So as mentioned earlier,
we have built a bunch of features on Posit Workbench to make the integration between
Posit Workbench and Databricks seamless. One example of that is the Databricks pane.
So if you notice here, the Databricks pane automatically detects any clusters that I
have configured in my personal environments. If I click into here, I can see more information
about them. And I can also start my cluster from within Posit Workbench. So I'm going
to click here, Start Cluster. Once it's ready, I can then actually connect to my cluster
via Posit Workbench 2. You may have seen the Connections pane before for connecting to
databases from within RStudio. And here, it provides me the sparkly R code that I need
to connect. But with the Databricks pane, I can actually do that within here too.
I click this plus sign. This pane opens up and it automatically detects my cluster ID
and then also my Python environment and also provides the code for connecting using sparkly R.
If I click OK, here it is running that sparkly R code to actually connect to Databricks.
Great. Now we're connected. So back in the Databricks, sorry, the Connections pane,
it's loading the objects. Once it's ready, I can actually see everything that's contained
within that Databricks catalog. So I can check out my Hive Metastore.
I can take a look at a certain table and see what's contained within it.
I can click the Viewer if I want to see the table within RStudio as well. Great.
So I'm going to go into my Environments pane now where we can see our connection.
And now let's walk through the actual code for creating our user-defined function.
So first, I'm going to create a new function.
For creating our user-defined function. So first, I'm going to load the packages that we're going
to need, sparkly R, dplyr, and dbplyr. And then I'm going to connect to my table.
I'm going to save it in an object called LendingClubDat.
Here, I can manipulate my data using dplyr and dbplyr code without having to actually bring it
into R. I'm still running everything on the database. I'm going to load the vetiver package,
the package that I mentioned earlier for machine learning operations.
And here we're going to create our R function that is going to create the prediction
of our data based on the model that we have saved on PositConnect. So the function is called
predictVetiver. It's going to load the workflows library. And then it's going to connect to my
board where my pin is, in this case, PositConnect. If you notice, I have the key here. And so I'm
going to replace this with my actual key in a second. Then I'm going to save an object called
model, which is actually going to read that pin and pull that model into RStudio. Then I'm going
to run my predictions and then output the predictions in this function. So running that,
now I have saved it. So I'll be right back after I put my API key in this function.
In the predictVetiver function above, I've replaced placeholderConnectAPIKey with my
actual API key. So that way, I can actually connect to PositConnect and pull the model pin
off the board. I'm going to create a slightly smaller data frame just for demonstration
purposes. And then I'm going to run that predictVetiver function to make sure that it actually
worked. And taking a look, it looks like it succeeded. It was able to load the appropriate
packages, connect to PositConnect, and use that model RDS file to run predictions. In this case,
the predicted value is 20.6. But what if we want to use Spark instead? And for that,
that is when we create a user-defined function. So to do that, we use the spark apply function
from the sparkly R package. And within it, we give it the function that we want it to run.
In this case, predictVetiver. Notice that I didn't have to edit any R code. I didn't have
to edit the function. I didn't have to add any code that wasn't in R. All I had to do was give
it the name to spark apply. Then I give it the columns that I'm going to use to create
the prediction and what I want to get back. And so running this,
and we can see that it worked. So using sparkly R, we were able to use Spark to read R code that
pulls down a model created with tidy models in R that has been pinned on PositConnect and then run
predictions on a data frame using Spark without changing any of our R code. So I hope you found
this introduction to user-defined functions and look forward to seeing what you create.